# SQL Saturday Board of Directors Meeting 5 May 2021

These are minutes from the initial meeting of the board of directors. The agenda is set as:

- Introductions (10 minutes)
- By law discussion (15 minutes)
- Term of service discussion (15 minutes)
- Officer election (10 minutes)
- AOB

Meeting set up over Zoom

Attendees
- Steve Jones
- Andy Warren
- Victoria Holt
- Stacia Varga
- Heidi Hasting
- Taiob Ali
- Johan Bratt√•s

Not Present
- Carlos Lopez
## Introductions 

Ten minutes spent allowing each attendee to introduce themselves, give some background, and some goals about the the board.
## By law discussion 

Initial bylaws are available from our current lawyer, with some markup from board members. Steph noted that the main item to think about is membership. Who do we pick and how?

Andy noted that we can look at this a few ways
- pick members who give meaningful input
- pick a set of members based on criteria
- to leave membership wide open, as PASS did allow anyone with an email address.

How do we qualify them, or do we, and what about the practical issues of data privacy and PII. He also noted that we want to send a positive message to the public that we value their input.

Steph liked the idea of organizers as members.

Andy would like to add volunteers and speakers. What about sponsors?

Steve - from the lawyer, we can start a non-member corp and then change this easily. The other way is harder.

Johan - We need members, and speakers and volunteers are OK.

Taiob - Do we want to qualify somehow the members? Or can we?

Andy - we should start simple and then moving forward, once we have data, we may think about qualifying different groups.

Heidi - do not include sponsors.

Steve - Redline from the lawyer came in, let's review and give comments online. We can approve electronically to get paperwork filed.
## Term of service discussion 

Steve's proposal is 2 year terms, limited to 2 consecutive, with no final limit on terms.

Andy - This means 50% turnover, which is high.

Johan - we want to stagger terms, can we do that?

Steve - with 2 year terms, we cannot, but we can hold multiple elections a year if we want.

Andy - Three years allows 1/3 of the board to stand for election, and possible leave. We should build a culture that if you need time off, we can allow that, or if you cannot continue working on the board, you can leave. However, you also need to be accountable, and he would propose that if a board member misses two meetings the board can take a vote on whether to keep them. There are reasons to take time off, but they need to be given.

Steve - Pass had no accountability here, which was an issue.

Steph - three years is good, less is a concern for knowledge transfer and the high turnover on the pass board created issues at the end. Steph asks about allowing someone to come back, which might create issues from strong personalities, as it did with PASS.

Steve - We should deal with that separately.

Andy - Start simple, and we can amend over time if we need to. Revisit this in 3-6 months. We also will need to work on the election for new directors. We won't get this right (necessarily), so we should plan on revisiting it. Let's be reasonable here in bylaws and amend them over time. Look at this from the organizer's point of view and evolve. We need checks and balances, but let's start here.

Quick verbal vote - everyone in favor of 3 years, limit to 2 consecutive.

Steve to create discussions for membership and term limits for directors to discuss.
## Officer election 

Steve chose himself, Andy (secretary), and Stacia (Treasurer) for the initial documents as placeholders. These roles are mostly keeping things organized. Steve proposes the officers have 1 year terms, chosen from the board, and stand for election with the rest of the board.

Does anyone want to stand or not?

Steph would prefer not to be an officer as she would like to leave earlier rather than later.

Stacia is fine with standing for Treasurer as she deals with this in her company.

Andy is fine standing for Secretary

Johan would prefer not to be President due to other commitments.

Steve notes he is committed, but doesn't need to be an officer to work for the organization.

Steph nominates Steve for President.

Steph notes we need to be transparent in how we work.

Andy notes we need to be role models for how a non profit ought to run and behave.

Verbal votes to approve:
- President: Steve
- Secretary: Andy
- Treasurer: Stacia
## AOB

Other items brought up
### Mailing list 

Steve has built a MailChimp form, and should we send this out?

General discussion that we should have a big, simple list and we can segregate this over time. Be GDPR compliant and include a multi-select to allow people to check they are speakers, organizers, volunteers, or attendees (or all). Steve to change this.

Taiob asks if we need to separate and segregate from Redgate. They have the biweekly update now.

Steve will ask Redgate to post a link to our mailing list in the update and publicize this. We will begin sending our own updates and collecting our data on Mailchimp.

### Data Saturday

Taiob had mentioned conflicts or concerns with SQL Saturday and Data Saturday. He notes we are posting other events on [SQLSaturday.com](http://sqlsaturday.com), and some people are confused or concerned about what the brands mean or how to choose.

Johan notes that there were some discussions with the Data Saturday group (DS) but when Steve stepped away those become quiet. There was concern from DS about legal issues with events. Johan would hope to see DS as an umbrella under which events like SQL Saturday might exist. This could happen over time.

Some general discussion here about non profits and trademarks and allowing different uses of logos. Steph notes this can be problematic if we do not defend trademarks and brands. We need to define what a SQL Saturday is and that will help people choose what brand or type of event to run. They licensed their logo under creative commons (with attribution) to allow easier reuse.

Andy would like to have fewer rules and try to be low friction, not no-friction, with events and their decisions. There were 1,000 events before this and limited issues. PASS did do a good job of mostly enforcing their brand, but too many rules.

Johan noted that Israel needed a non profit to run a SQL Saturday. Steph notes that moving money internationally and providing an umbrella can be problematic legally.

Steve to ask a question to the lawyer about logo reuse/changes, maybe adding new versions, and about money.

Quick well wishes and vaccine discussion. A few board members have submitted to DataMinds in Belgium, and hope we can go.
